.TH minetest 6 "2 February 2019" "" ""

.SH NAME
minetest, minetestserver \- Multiplayer infinite-world block sandbox

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B minetest
[\fB--server SERVER OPTIONS\fR | \fBCLIENT OPTIONS\fR]
[\fBCOMMON OPTIONS\fR]
[\fBWORLD PATH\fR]

.B minetestserver
[\fBSERVER OPTIONS\fR]
[\fBCOMMON OPTIONS\fR]
[\fBWORLD PATH\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Minetest is one of the first InfiniMiner/Minecraft(/whatever) inspired games
(started October 2010), with a goal of taking the survival multiplayer gameplay
in a slightly different direction.
.PP
The main design philosophy is to keep it technically simple, stable and
portable. It will be kept lightweight enough to run on fairly old hardware.

.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print allowed options and exit
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information and exit
.TP
.B \-\-config <value>
Load configuration from specified file
.TP
.B \-\-logfile <value>
Set logfile path ('' for no logging)
.TP
.B \-\-info
Print more information to console
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Print even more information to console
.TP
.B \-\-trace
Print enormous amounts of information to console
.TP
.B \-\-quiet
Print only errors to console
.TP
.B \-\-color <value>
Colorize the logs ('always', 'never' or 'auto'), defaults to 'auto'
.TP
.B \-\-gameid <value> | list
Set gameid or list available ones
.TP
.B \-\-worldname <value>
Set world path by name
.TP
.B \-\-world <value>
Set world path
.TP
.B \-\-worldlist path | name | both
Get list of worlds ('path' lists paths, 'name' lists names, 'both' lists both)
.TP
.B \-\-map\-dir <value>
Same as \-\-world (deprecated)
.TP
.B \-\-port <value>
Set network port (UDP) to use
.TP
.B \-\-run\-unittests
Run unit tests and exit

.SH CLIENT OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-address <value>
Address to connect to
.TP
.B \-\-go
Disable main menu
.TP
.B \-\-name <value>
Set player name
.TP
.B \-\-password <value>
Set password
.TP
.B \-\-password\-file <value>
Set password from contents of file
.TP
.B \-\-random\-input
Enable random user input, for testing (client only)
.TP
.B \-\-videomodes
List available video modes (client only)
.TP
.B \-\-speedtests
Run speed tests

.SH SERVER OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-migrate <value>
Migrate from current map backend to another. Possible values are sqlite3,
leveldb, redis, postgresql, and dummy.
.TP
.B \-\-migrate-auth <value>
Migrate from current auth backend to another. Possible values are sqlite3,
leveldb, and files.
.TP
.B \-\-migrate-players <value>
Migrate from current players backend to another. Possible values are sqlite3,
leveldb, postgresql, dummy, and files.
.TP
.B \-\-migrate-mod-storage <value>
Migrate from current mod storage backend to another. Possible values are
sqlite3, dummy, and files.
.TP
.B \-\-terminal
Display an interactive terminal over ncurses during execution.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MINETEST_SUBGAME_PATH
Colon delimited list of directories to search for games.
.TP
.B MINETEST_MOD_PATH
Colon delimited list of directories to search for mods.

.SH BUGS
Please report all bugs at https://github.com/minetest/minetest/issues.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Perttu Ahola <celeron55@gmail.com> and contributors.
.PP
This man page was originally written by
Juhani Numminen <juhaninumminen0@gmail.com>.

.SH WWW
http://www.minetest.net/
